src/content/posts/2016/2016-03-20-questions-ask-choosing-new-tools-frameworks-libraries.md, before:

---
title: 'Choosing between Frameworks & Tools'
author: Ben Shi
type: post
date: 2016-03-20T11:26:25+00:00
slug: questions-ask-choosing-new-tools-frameworks-libraries
categories:
  - notes
tags:
  - alternative technology
  - assessments
  - frameworks
  - learning
  - libraries
  - software development
  - tools
---

![Searching for alternatives](/media/searching-for-alternatives.jpg)

New tools, frameworks and libraries pop up all the time (especially true in javascript), so how do
you assess whether they are the right fit for your project or organisation?

To assist with the task of assessing, I ask myself the following questions (replace [x] with the
tool/framework/library you are assessing):

- Why does [x] exist?
- What problem is [x] trying to solve?
- What can [x] do better than what we currently have?
- How does [x] integrate into our current process? Is it a seamless switch?
- Does [x] have developer support and sufficient documentation? (You can usually find these out from
  Stack Overflow or Github)
- If [x] is not free, are there free/open source alternatives? Are the costs worth the features?
  What is the licensing model like?

Of course there are many more questions to ask and it really depends on what [x] is and the problems
it is trying to solve. Some areas to think about include:

- Performance;
- Scalability and Concurrency;
- Security;
- Dev activity (is it being actively maintained);
- IDE support;

I did not put 'learning curve' in here because personally I think that if [x] is useful and tick all
the right boxes then learning it would be worthwhile and it should be the least of your worries.
Having said that, learning curve could put much more weight in your assessment when you have two or
more close contenders and/or your team size is fairly large.

If you can not answer these questions above, then you probably wont need it (for now). Either note
it down to reassess in the future or move on and save yourself some time.

I would love to hear what you think and if you think I have missed something please do let me know!

Commit message:

feat: add comprehensive social media metadata support
- Add Open Graph and Twitter Card metadata with proper article type support
- Automatically extract first image from post content for social sharing
- Add SEO-optimized descriptions to all 11 blog posts
- Create image extraction utility for automatic social preview images
- Add support for custom image and socialImage fields in post frontmatter
- Fix duplicate 'read' text in reading time display
- Hide descriptions from page display (keep in metadata only)
- Add article-specific metadata (published_time, author, tags)
- Create default OG image fallback for pages without images
- Update content schema to support image fields for posts and notes

This fixes social media sharing where posts were showing broken images
and missing descriptions. Posts now display properly when shared on
Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and other social platforms.

src/content/posts/2016/2016-03-20-questions-ask-choosing-new-tools-frameworks-libraries.md, after:

---
title: 'Choosing between Frameworks & Tools'
author: Ben Shi
type: post
date: 2016-03-20T11:26:25+00:00
slug: questions-ask-choosing-new-tools-frameworks-libraries
description:
  'Essential questions to ask when evaluating new frameworks and libraries for your project. A
  practical guide for technology selection decisions.'
categories:
  - notes
tags:
  - alternative technology
  - assessments
  - frameworks
  - learning
  - libraries
  - software development
  - tools
---

![Searching for alternatives](/media/searching-for-alternatives.jpg)

New tools, frameworks and libraries pop up all the time (especially true in javascript), so how do
you assess whether they are the right fit for your project or organisation?

To assist with the task of assessing, I ask myself the following questions (replace [x] with the
tool/framework/library you are assessing):

- Why does [x] exist?
- What problem is [x] trying to solve?
- What can [x] do better than what we currently have?
- How does [x] integrate into our current process? Is it a seamless switch?
- Does [x] have developer support and sufficient documentation? (You can usually find these out from
  Stack Overflow or Github)
- If [x] is not free, are there free/open source alternatives? Are the costs worth the features?
  What is the licensing model like?

Of course there are many more questions to ask and it really depends on what [x] is and the problems
it is trying to solve. Some areas to think about include:

- Performance;
- Scalability and Concurrency;
- Security;
- Dev activity (is it being actively maintained);
- IDE support;

I did not put 'learning curve' in here because personally I think that if [x] is useful and tick all
the right boxes then learning it would be worthwhile and it should be the least of your worries.
Having said that, learning curve could put much more weight in your assessment when you have two or
more close contenders and/or your team size is fairly large.

If you can not answer these questions above, then you probably wont need it (for now). Either note
it down to reassess in the future or move on and save yourself some time.

I would love to hear what you think and if you think I have missed something please do let me know!
