src/content/posts/2013/2013-06-12-decisions.md, before:

---
title: Decisions
author: Ben Shi
type: post
date: 2013-06-12T07:53:33+00:00
slug: decisions
categories:
  - life
tags:
  - career
  - decisions
  - job
  - reflection
---

> There comes a time when the world gets quiet and the only thing left is your own heart. So you'd
> better learn the sound of it. Otherwise you'll never understand what it's saying.
>
> <small>Sarah Dessen, <cite title="Just Listen">Just Listen</cite></small>

The quote above from Sarah Dessen's Just Listen has resonated with me ever since I saw it. As I
approached my graduation I saw myself making a very important choice, career wise. The decision was
far from what I had originally imagined. I ultimately gave up a job offer I know I would thoroughly
enjoy and opting in for a graduate position at a very reputable investment bank.

![Goodbye](/media/bye.jpg)

Now, I cannot say whether I have made the right decision. I think there is no point in speculating
as to what "would have happened" or if I would be "better-off" with the other job offer. Thinking
back I realised at the time something, somehow has tempted me into moving and all the noise and
doubt has clouded why I made the choice in the first place.

That is... **to use the opportunity as a platform for change and diversify my experiences**.

Nearly a year down the track, the result of that very decision has brought me to where I am today. I
learnt a great deal about the investment industry; I met a great bunch of talented people, many of
which are graduates just like myself; I learnt about discipline and how to work as a professional; I
pushed myself out of the comfort zone of being stuck in a dev heavy environment and really working
towards being a well-rounded person.

Commit message:

feat: add comprehensive social media metadata support
- Add Open Graph and Twitter Card metadata with proper article type support
- Automatically extract first image from post content for social sharing
- Add SEO-optimized descriptions to all 11 blog posts
- Create image extraction utility for automatic social preview images
- Add support for custom image and socialImage fields in post frontmatter
- Fix duplicate 'read' text in reading time display
- Hide descriptions from page display (keep in metadata only)
- Add article-specific metadata (published_time, author, tags)
- Create default OG image fallback for pages without images
- Update content schema to support image fields for posts and notes

This fixes social media sharing where posts were showing broken images
and missing descriptions. Posts now display properly when shared on
Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and other social platforms.

src/content/posts/2013/2013-06-12-decisions.md, after:

---
title: Decisions
author: Ben Shi
type: post
date: 2013-06-12T07:53:33+00:00
slug: decisions
description:
  'When the world gets quiet and only your heart remains. Reflections on making life-changing
  decisions and listening to your inner voice.'
categories:
  - life
tags:
  - career
  - decisions
  - job
  - reflection
---

> There comes a time when the world gets quiet and the only thing left is your own heart. So you'd
> better learn the sound of it. Otherwise you'll never understand what it's saying.
>
> <small>Sarah Dessen, <cite title="Just Listen">Just Listen</cite></small>

The quote above from Sarah Dessen's Just Listen has resonated with me ever since I saw it. As I
approached my graduation I saw myself making a very important choice, career wise. The decision was
far from what I had originally imagined. I ultimately gave up a job offer I know I would thoroughly
enjoy and opting in for a graduate position at a very reputable investment bank.

![Goodbye](/media/bye.jpg)

Now, I cannot say whether I have made the right decision. I think there is no point in speculating
as to what "would have happened" or if I would be "better-off" with the other job offer. Thinking
back I realised at the time something, somehow has tempted me into moving and all the noise and
doubt has clouded why I made the choice in the first place.

That is... **to use the opportunity as a platform for change and diversify my experiences**.

Nearly a year down the track, the result of that very decision has brought me to where I am today. I
learnt a great deal about the investment industry; I met a great bunch of talented people, many of
which are graduates just like myself; I learnt about discipline and how to work as a professional; I
pushed myself out of the comfort zone of being stuck in a dev heavy environment and really working
towards being a well-rounded person.
